Okay, we have tape throwing on this end. Let's start out. How much time do we have first?
As much as you want.
Oh wow, okay.
We've got a rough cut at four o'clock, so we've got 55 minutes.
Oh, that should be plenty of time. First, how did this project get started?
The project got started. I was doing a half-hour situation comedy two years ago.
I did the first four hours of this, the first two hours, first four episodes of the sitcom,
and was fired by Warner Brothers after the show became a hit in the grand show business tradition.
So I went surfing and I was sitting on the beach the next day. It was just about two years ago.
And decided to write a show that if it ever got on the air, I would watch it. That was the basis of it.
That I wanted to do something that I would watch, that I thought would be fun to see.
And I started to kick around various elements of different things that I had liked,
and different things that appealed to me, and that I was interested in.
And it was a combination of things from the movie Butch and Sundance, and Star Wars, and Raiders, which were all very hot.
And my kids were heavily into Dungeons and Dragons, and video games, stuff like that.
And I thought of doing a medieval version, something that looked medieval, a medieval version of Butch and Sundance, essentially.
That is characters who are set in a, what appears to be an historical setting, who have contemporary sensibilities.
And that was the beginning of it. That was the first germ of what became Greystone's Odyssey, which was the name of the show until last fall.
And I took these various notions over to a friend of mine at CBS, who was in charge of ordering scripts, and he responded to it right away.
What I did was then started to create a world. I created a planet called Camerrand, and set all the action of this show on the continent of Apparance.
Now, from my way of thinking, for all my staff, and for everybody who's written it, the planet of Camerrand is Earth, 500 million years in the future.
Post-technology, and it has returned to, through an evolutionary process, what we know of as historically as the medieval times.
But with twist, there are a lot of mutants. There is holdover technology, which is controlled by the wizards, who have access to the book, which is the source of knowledge and power.
And that's basically what the framework is. Now, on the continent of Apparance, within that framework, there is a war taking place between the forces of the north and the forces of the south.
The forces of the north being represented by Prince Dirk Blackpool, the bad guy, and the forces of the south being represented by Prince Eric Greystone. That's essentially what happened.
Okay. How far have you gotten into production?
We shot a pilot last year. CBS saw that and ordered seven additional episodes. I completed filming the eighth episode about two weeks ago, and we're in post-production now.
Okay, then it's pretty well done. Do you have any projected air date?
We will go on the air Saturday, March the fifth at eight o'clock on CBS.
Okay. I thought, I saw something. CBS runs the gizmos where they say, you know, here's what's coming next month. And I thought I saw something that dealt with your program on there, but it was like a two-second micro blitz of a guy with a sword that was glowing, and he whooped around and then it was off.
It's amazing that you actually saw that. I saw it too. I was skiing last week. I had no idea they were going to do that. There are two little clips, probably, it's almost subliminal, from an episode called The Rescue, where the wizard vector, well, this shows everything is so complicated.
Prince Eric Greystone is hanging dangling at the end of a chain over a slime pit, which contains a slime monster. And the wizard vector sends this laser beam to the top of the chain, which heats the chain, and the heat begins to descend until it touches his hands, and he has to let go and fall into the pit.
You saw the casting of that beam and the slow motion shot of Greystone falling towards the water.
I knew it wasn't from any show that I had seen previously, and I knew it wasn't a cut from Star Wars, which CBS is hoping to show, so I knew it probably had to be your show.
Well, that's very observant of you. This show does not look like anything you have ever seen on television. I guarantee you that it is very, very different. It's quite an adventure.
Why don't you go into explaining a little bit of what the differences are?
Well, everything is different. First of all, it breaks all the rules. You're not supposed to do period pieces on television. They don't work. Well, this isn't really a period piece, but it looks like one when you first see it.
It's heavily costumed. The show deals with fantasy, which outside of Star Trek has not been very successful. There's a lot of science fiction overtones to it.
It's episodic, but it's also a serial in the way that mash is. The war is the overlying thing, overriding thing, so each episode doesn't wrap up a problem neatly.
It is shot with fog filters and half corals, which gives it a very storybook look. Nothing else on television does that. Everything about it is different. It's very hard to explain. There's humor in it, and yet people die.
There are no jokes, but it's very funny. I can't think of anything that even compares to it.
Did I read correctly that you made some references to mash? Are there some of the writers from mash working on the show?
I produced mash in 1975-76 along with Bert Metcalf and Alan Katz, and I did 26 episodes of it. Nobody else on my staff worked on mash.
That's where I remember seeing your name. I'm a big mash fan. You mentioned something about the effects. Does the show have quite a bit of a special effect on it then?
Yeah. One of the episodes, I'm just looking at it today, called the Kidnap, has a special effect in every scene. It's an enormous amount of special effects, matworks, beam splitters, opticals, rotoscoping, a lot of it. It's a very, very expensive endeavor.
I was just thinking, it must be pretty expensive to produce then.
It's enormously expensive. It's the most expensive series that CBS has ever commissioned. It's a gamble. They should be commended for taking this gamble.
For all the people who are fantasy and science fiction fans, they should write a thank you about the CBS because I don't know anybody else in television who would have attempted this.
Yeah, ABC had a lot of hopes for Battlesmart Galactica, if you remember when that came on. The effects were fantastic, but the writing just kind of fell off and the show didn't hold up from the writing end of it.
Yeah, you've got to start with solid scripts, solid characters, and hope that people respond to that first because as far as dazzling people with special effects, you go to the movies and you're going to see $20 million special effects.
So we're not going to show anything that hasn't been seen before in films, but we have characters that no one's ever seen before in an interesting situation, I think. The classic situation. It's good against evil.
Yeah, I'm a big fan of fantasy myself. Read a lot. Play Dungeons and Dragons. Oh, her.
But what is the market that you're aiming at?
George Lucas once said that Star Wars was designed for kids or anybody who's ever been one. You know, I think that's the market that I want.
They're putting it on at eight o'clock, so it's a highly visual show, so hopefully it'll attract a young audience.
But I think young adults and even not so young adults will respond to it because it can be viewed on different levels.
When you have as broad a canvas as we have, you have the possibility, the opportunity to do parables.
And everything is structured on various levels. You can interpret the stories, the lines on a sophisticated adult level, or you can just go straight ahead with the story and look at the monsters and the power sorts.
I think it will appeal to a lot of people or it will appeal to no one. This show is either a rocket or a bomb. One or the other. It's not in between.
I happen to like it.
Okay. Yeah, I have, if I can express my own personal opinion here, I really have a hope for a fantasy or science fiction show.
You know, a really good one to come on and they seem to have been lacking. Do you have any opinions as to why that might be?
Yeah, everything out here is done by committee. Once you start with an idea, you can have a pure idea, a great idea.
And you take it to one of the networks and you pitch it to a person at a network and that person makes changes along with his assistants and they all make changes because it's their money in the end.
And then his boss will make changes and then his boss will make changes and then you go into, if you're working with a studio like I am, the studio will request changes.
Actors then request changes. Directors make changes and it never stops. There's always groups of people who have input and the net effect is you end up with a watered down property.
You know, I see things on the air and I say, my God, it's a great idea but the execution is so bad.
And then I remember how this town works and realize why very few things come through with clarity and purity and it's because of interference.
With Wizards and Warriors, I was extraordinarily fortunate in the gentleman at CVS that I first told the idea to go ahead within 30 seconds.
It was an incredible meeting and all his assistants were dumbfounded. He understood it and he has shepherded the project.
He shares the vision of the project with me. His name is Kimmel Masters, incidentally.
And he has shepherded it through all this complicated process of writing and making pilots and then writing episodes and making them and all the pitfalls have been avoided.
The show is exactly as I conceived it initially that day on the beach, maybe better.
And that's the first time I've ever experienced that sort of thing in this business.
Yeah, I know how difficult that must have been because of the convoluted process that things get from the idea stage to the actual finished product.
We managed to avoid all of it.
All right.
Did I understand you that you do some or a lot of the writing?
I wrote, let's see, I wrote four of the eight shows.
The co-executive producer, Judith Allison, wrote one.
A fellow named Bill Richmond wrote two of them.
A fellow named Robert Earl wrote one.
And those are the eight that are going out of here.
Okay. Could you give me a brief rundown of how the script writing process goes?
Yes.
When we're working in production and I have a staff, as I did starting last July,
there's me, Judith Allison, Bill Richmond, Robert Earl, and another wonderful writer named Paul Edwards.
We all get in a room and sit down and start to talk about stories, possible stories.
And when we seize on an idea that everybody agrees on, we start to work out the story, break it down into four acts,
and then take one scene at a time.
The first scene is this, the second scene is this, so on and so forth.
The end of the first act is this, all the way through it until we have a completed story.
And somebody takes notes.
I get those notes, I get on the phone with the network, in this case CBS, and tell them the story.
If they accept the story, we then go ahead to first draft, which is one individual writer will go ahead and write a complete first draft.
We then take the first draft and in-house sit down and read it out loud.
We split up the parts, everybody will play a character, and we actually do the play, as it were, in my office here.
That's a system that Gene Reynolds instituted and maybe initiated on MASH, and I found it to be very successful,
because then you're not hearing these lines for the first time and you don't have an actor say,
my god, I can't say that, it's awful, because you've already said it.
The answer can always be, well, I can say it if you can.
And we do it that way.
And the result of that meeting becomes the second draft, which is then sent to the network for their comments, suggested changes,
and standards and practices, obviously, will take out anything that they find objectionable, or ask us to take it out.
A lot of arguments there.
And that's basically how it works when you're in production.
Yeah, okay, I was tremendously interested in that myself.
Give me a little bit of rundown on who's in the show, who's acting, what part, and stuff like that.
Okay, Prince Eric Greystone is played by Jeff Conaway, who was on Taxi.
I think that's probably what he's best known for, and he was also in Greece.
He's done a whole bunch of stuff.
Looks like a prince.
His sidekick is a guy named Walter Okowitz, who had a series called The Last Resort a few years back.
Very funny, very talented guy.
Greystone's brother, Justin Greystone, is played by a guy named Jay Kerr, who is from Texas, relative newcomer.
He's also a regular on The Young and the Restless, I think.
Yeah, The Young and the Restless.
Those are the good guys.
Also on the good guy's side is the wizard Trey Quill, who's played by an actor named Ian Wolfe, who is probably the oldest living man on Earth.
I'm not sure how old Ian is.
Somewhere around 100.
The King Baldor, who's the King of the threatened country in the South, is played by Tom Hill, and his wife Queen Latinia is played by Julie Payne.
And the Princess Ariel is played by Julia Duffy.
She's absolutely fabulous. You're going to love her.
She was just in the blue and the gray.
She was the romantic lead for Stacey Keach in that.
On the bad guy's side, Prince Blackpool is played by an actor named Duncan Regare, who is going to be on the cover of People Magazine in April.
Basically, the character of Prince Dirk Blackpool is, my concept was to write Darth Vader and to cast an extremely good looking guy.
And the combination is devastating.
The evil wizard Vector is played by Clive Reville and the witch Bethel is played by Randy Brooks.
And there's another Blackpool brother, Jeffrey Blackpool, who appears occasionally is played by Tim Dunnigan, who was on a show last night called The A-Team, a movie that was on NBC.
And that's the cast.
Yeah, I saw A-Team last night. Was he the one they called Face?
That's him.
Yes, in fact, I was going to remark a while ago, but I didn't want to sidetrack what we were doing.
Camille got by the closest word I've ever heard to getting, he said, mudsucker.
Yeah.
I've never heard anybody get closer.
That's a great game we play out here.
I love it.
I think the worst pun I ever heard was Jim Henson's thing he's doing on Home Box Office.
The lead character's name is Traveling Matt.
That's got to be the worst pun I've heard.
Oh, I've heard words for that.
What do you think are the possibilities for a run on the show?
Like I said, it's a rocket or a bomb.
I don't know.
It's very different. It's a unique, you know, it's all the things that people say television isn't.
I don't know if anybody's going to like it.
You know, you get tunnel vision, at least I do.
When I get involved in a project this deeply, it's been two years now, you lose objectivity.
And the best you can do is cling to your initial idea and the excitement that that idea generated
and try and stay true to that, whether or not anybody else will like it.
I absolutely don't know. But if they do, it'll be in large numbers.
But if they don't, you'll never hear of me again.
That's not true.
Let's see.
I think I've basically covered all the questions that I wrote down here.
Is there anything else that you would have to say about it?
I don't know. You know, it's really even difficult for me to talk about this show because it is an amalgam of so many different things.
It has become something of its own, you know.
It's very exciting. It's fun and it's fast.
I just hope a lot of people watch it.
Okay, well, I can tell you that I'll be glued to my tube with my video tape recorder going March the 5th.
So will I. You'll get to see it a couple hours before I do though.
Oh yeah, that's right. I was hitting you all there.
But you will have seen it previous to that, I'm sure, a few times.
Yeah, I've seen one of the shows 106 times yesterday.
The pilot, which we, you know, in the pilot it was a completed story, a non-completed story.
We had an open ending on it as to whether or not the princess was rescued.
That's what makes for good pilots. People want to see the next one.
So we had to go back and reshoot the end of it so we would have a complete episode.
And it seems like I've been working on that one forever.
I mean, I wrote it two years ago and I'm still working on it.
As a matter of fact, we're still going to continue to work on it.
I'm doing some voiceover work on it next week.
I start to live with these things. They become a part of your life.
One of the challenges, one thing that I found interesting in writing all these episodes was one of these self-imposed rules.
I wanted the heroes at every act break, which is four times an hour, to be in a situation where they could not possibly survive.
And then after the act break, find a way to have them survive.
And we've managed to do that, but it's, I'll tell you, that's a challenge.
You start out trying to think of a situation that somebody cannot get out of and then work backwards.
That was a major time consumer.
The cliffhanger.
Yes, indeed. The old cliffhanger.
You guys run into a lot of problems.
There are snake-faced people, not only the wizards, but all these mutants and monsters running around.
It's a rough life. It came our end.
Sounds like it.
I wonder if they need any special effects to get out of the hole.
When the show hits the air, you know how the, I can't think of a good way to ask this one.
When the show becomes popular, and it hits the air and people go, oh wow, you know this new show is on, it's called this fantasy fantastic stuff on it.
What do you think the general public is going to gravitate toward first?
The people. No question about it.
In television, you're selling people. That's what it is.
That's why certain actors endure, you know, because they're comfortable to have in your living room.
There are certain television personalities, if you will, like Bill Bixby and James Garner and those people who go from one hit series to another.
That's the first thing that people respond to is the people.
And we have a varied and interesting group.
After about it, it's the writing. It's a question of the stories. Are the stories in grossing? Do they hold your attention?
Do you get bored? Do you go to sleep? Do you go to the refrigerator or the bathroom?
You have to be able to hold people and entertain them.
That's what this is all about. You know, it's a giant game, but we're trying to entertain people.
Starting with me.
Very good.
All right.
So this is probably a pretty dumb question, but I can ask it anyway.
How do you know when you've got a good story idea?
Well, it fulfills certain requirements. You know it when you hear it is all I can tell you after doing this for 14 years.
This year, it's just, it's a story that grabs your attention. You start with one line, usually, with one sentence.
You know, what if there was a nuclear device planted in the castle? That's one of the scripts that we did.
We started with basic sentence and that was interesting to me that you could have some huge explosive device hidden in the good guy's castle that they can't find.
And the ramifications of that, you know, that can't be turned off. You can't stop it unless you get this key that's in a place that's filled where one false move is certain death.
So the heroes obviously have to go and get the key and then get back in time to shut the thing off.
You just know it. I mean, that was instantly a story that I wanted to do.
I think a good story idea begs the question, what happens then? That's when you know you have a good story.
Okay, very good. Very interesting.
I think I pretty well got it covered. I really wish you luck on your project and everything.
And one of these days, I hope to get out there and do something or work for somebody one of these days if I can ever figure out how to do it.
Come on out, give me a call.
Okay, I'll do that. Listen, give me an address where I can send you a copy of the tape or send you a copy of the finished tape as it goes on there so you can hear what it sounds like.
Okay, well you can just send it to the Burbank Studios in Burbank. It's 4,000 Warner Boulevard.
4,000 Warner Boulevard. Okay.
Burbank, California, it'll get to me.
Okay, I'll do that.
All right, David.
Listen, sir, appreciate your time very much.
Nice talking to you.
Okay, bye-bye.